karaoke-scoring-system
==

[TOC]


## 1 introduction
This project aim to build a karaoke scoring system using python as the Final Project of MIR.
The system contains main subsystem：

1. Source Separation: Separates vocal and accompaniment from original song input (.wav, .mp3 etc.)

2. Song Database: Stores the original song file , vocal, accompaniment gained from source separation module and pitch array generated from Vocal pitch recognition.

3. Vocal Recorder: Record vocal (our sining) with Microphone input and play the accompaniment at the same time. 

4. vocal pitch recognition: Analyze  the  human voice (vocal) recorded by Vocal Recorder and the vocal separated by Source Separation.

## 2. Project directory structure
```
|--/MIR_FINAL
    |-/Database
    |-/lib
        |-validate.py
    |-/Pitch_detection_model
        |-vocal_pitch_recognition.py
    |-/Source_Separation
        |-/demucs
        |-separation.py
        |-Source_Separation.py
    |-main.py
    |-README.md
    |-requirements.txt
```

## 3. Requirements
Before run list project, we need to install the following package relates to Source Separation function
>python.exe -m pip install -U demucs

For recording voice: 
>pip install -r requirements.txt

## 4. Source Separation
This part incorporates code from the demucs library developed by Facebook Research. The demucs library is a powerful audio source separation tool. For more information about demucs, visit their official repository at [https://github.com/facebookresearch/demucs](https://github.com/facebookresearch/demucs).
Special thanks to the contributors and maintainers of demucs for their valuable work and open-source contribution.


For Source Separation, you can import your song and get the vocal and accompaniment by enterring

> python main.py -mode i -song_path path/to/your/song 

Then, under the Database dir, a folder named by your song is created. A vocal.wav and the accompaniment.wav generated by the Source Separation model are stored in that folder.


TODO:
>Apply the vocal pitch recognition to the vocal to get the pitch list. Next, store it in the same dir in .txt format.


## LICENCE
---
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2023 張耀明

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.